#summary InGrigna
#labels Featured

== InGrigna app ==

The InGrigna app is an Android app to browse the Speleological database
of InGrigna.


=== The database ===

The Speleological database of InGrigna contains data of
  * the caves of the Grigne area: survey data, maps, photoes, description (over 1000)
  * the speleological published works (articles, books, etc.) (more than 500)
  * the cadastrial data
  * sources in the area
  * the InGrigna activity reports since 2007
  * maps and other material

There are cross references between caves and publications, and in particular 
publications containing maps of caves. The activity reports are geo-referenced and cross-referenced with caves.


=== The app ===

The app interface is a Google map with overlaid a portion of the CTR map and the
cave and source positions. 

The cave marks carry a color/shape code. If the cave is "vertical" the mark is
a circle, if it is "horizontal" the mark is a semicircle. The color codes are 
  * grey: re-visited, no continuation
  * violet: not revisited yet
  * red: need digging
  * yellow: to revisit, need digging
  * green: to revisit with less snow,
  * dark green: to revisit
  * light blue: continue
  * blue: in exploration

Tapping on a cave mark opens the "cave dialog" with a summary of the data of the
cave and buttons to access the relevant documentation:
  * description
  * entrance photo
  * survey maps (either as image or pdf)
  * survey data (???)
  * cadastrial form
  * bibliography
  * survey bibliography
There is also a button to center the map on the cave.

The app menus:
  * Locate
  * Reports: list the reports for the displayed area
  * Overlays: opena dialog to load the overlays
  * Save center: store away the map center
  * Search: query in the database
  * Legend: see the cave color legend
  * Move to: move to a position
  * Coord convert: coordinate conversion (between Gauss Boaga and Long./Lat)
  * Credit: check the user credit
  * Options: app preferences

The app preferences include:
  * the location of the current center (east, north)
  * the default range for geo-queries
  * the tapping range (focus)
  * whether to overlay caves
  * whether to overlay sources
  * whether to overlay the CTR map
  * whether to get the satellite Google map
  * whether to get the street Google map
  * whether to use the app engine CTR or a locally installed CTR
  * whether to use the app engine DB or a locally installed DB
  * the code for the engine
  * the device code

In order to access the data on the engine you must set the engine code.
The engine code is specific for each device. 
To get the engine code for your device, you need to send me the device
code so that I can compute the corresponding engine code.

You also need some credit at the engine.
The app uses the engine code when it gets data from the app engine.
Each request to the engine uses one credit.
When your credit is over the engine will not serve the data to your app.
Credits are available at a charge, as the engine is not free.
At the moment I cannot tell what the charge will be.
 