#summary Linux Installation

= Linux Installation =


== Sources ==

The safest way to install QTopo on Linux is to compile it from the sources. Download and untar the source tgz:

	tar -xzf qtopo-XXX.tgz

This will create a directory TopoLinux, with the following subdirectories:

   bin .......... executable files
   basic-02 ..... TopoLinux utilities
   calib-02 ..... TopoLinux calibration utilities
   distox ....... DistoX connection and communication
   docs ......... documentation
   help ......... help pages
   i18n ......... internationalization data files
   icons ........ run-time icons
   pixmaps ...... compile-time pixmaps
   QTcalib-02 ... QTopoCalib classes
   QTshot-02 .... QTopoShot classes
   utils ........ utility classes
   tmp .......... data

The source files are in distox, utils, basic-02, calib-02, QTshot-02 and QTcalib-02. Unless you must work without a window environment, it is not necessary to compile the programs in basic-02 and calib-02. There are also a few files, the most important of which is the run-time configuration file qtopo.rc.

There is no "configure" and you must compile everything by hand. You need the C++ and Qt development environment (g++, etc., and Qt), and you must compile the sources in four directories:

   1. cd distox; make
   2. cd utils; make
   3. cd QTshot; qmake; make
   4. cd QTcalib; qmake; make

At this point you have two executables QTshot-02/qtshot and QTcalib-02/qtcalib. Run them from the TopoLinux root directory, as they look for the run-time resources from there.


== Precompiled ===

The precompiled download archive contains the subdirectories

	bin ......... executables
	docs ........ documentation
	i18n ........ internationalization data
	icons ....... run-time icons
	help ........ help pages
	tmp ......... data

Furthermore, there is the run-time configuration file qtopo.rc.

You need to have the Qt run-time (libraries) installed. To execute a program, invoke it from the TopoLinux root directory. For example

	./bin/qtshot