#summary TopoLinux. Portable programs for DistoX.

= Introduction =

TopoLinux is a set of programs to work with the DistoX.
It consists of two graphical applications, QTopoShot and QTopoCalib, and
a number of command-line utilities.

The graphical applications are based on the
Qt graphics libraries and aim to be portable. They have been successfully 
compiled on Linux and Windows.

The command-line utilities have been developed for limited environments
and data-recovery purposes. They have been tested only on Linux.


= QTopoShot =

This is the DistoX survey application.
It downloads the survey data from the DistoX, manages the survey
shots, and let the user draw sketches for the plan and extended
elevation maps.

The survey data can be exported in Therion, Compass,
Survex, and PocketTopo format. The sketches can be exported in
Therion format.

== Survey ==
Main survey application
  * [ShotTable] Centerline and splay shot table
  * [ShotEdit] Editing shots.
  * [ShotInsert] Inserting a new shot.
  * [SurveyCommand] Summary of command buttons.

== Drawings ==
Plot drawing windows.
  * [Modes] Selection and insertion.
  * [Points] Drawing points.
  * [Lines] Drawing lines.
  * [DrawingCommand] Summary of command buttons.

== 3D viewer ==
3D display of the survey.
  * [3DCommand] Summary of the command buttons.

== Background sketch ==
Background sketch import.
  * [SketchCommand] Summary of the command buttons.


= QTopoCalib =

This is the DistoX calibration application.

This program toggle the DistoX on and off calibration mode.
It downloads the calibration shots from the DistoX, and computes
the calibration coefficients, which can be uploaded to the DistoX.

  * [Table] Data table.
  * [Download] Data download.
  * [Coverage] Angular direction data coverage.
  * [Compute] Calibration computation.
  * [CalibrationCommand] Summary of the command buttons.


= Installation =

  * [Linux] installation
  * [Windows] installation
  * [CHANGES] program development log

= Files =

  * [survey.tlx] TopoLinux sample survey file
  * [calib.txt] TopoLinux sample calibration file
