#summary TopoDroid tips

= TopoDroid tips =

Tips and tricks to work with TopoDroid profitably.


== DistoX ==

DistoX devices are identified by their BlueTooth addresses.
Once you have selected a DistoX device, that device appear in the
options of the "DistoX" menu, so that you can go to the device
management interface with three taps (menus, the "DistoX" menu and
device option).
 
TopoDroid can be either connected or disconnected to a DistoX.
When it is connected it downloads the data. These are assigned to the 
current survey or the current calibration. It is therefore *important* to 
open a survey (and/or a calibration) before you connect to the DistoX.
Otherwise your data will be lost.

The other device functions (reading and writing the calibration, reading the
head/tail of the dat a queue, toggle the device in calibration mode)
operates only when the device is "disconnected".

== Survey ==

Survey management is rather complex. TopoDroid offers a few options that
determine how the survey data are displayed. In particular TopoDroid 
distinguishes between centerline shots (two or more consecutive shots
with similar values) and splay shots. Furthermore a shot is "blank" if its
stations have not been specified.

TopoDroid can automatically assign the "from" station to the splay shots between
two centerline shots. In this case the splay shots get the "from" station from the
second centerline shot. Therefore it's a good practice to take the splay shots
*before* the centerline shots when surveyin in the cave.

TopoDroid can export the survey data as Therion "th" file. The filename is the
same as the survey name (plus the extension ".th"), and the files are saved
in the "th" dircetory.

The exported Therion file misses a lot of important commands, in particular the
input command for the scrap files.

== Plots (scraps) ==

Plots are saved in Therion ".th2" format, and are stored in the "th2" directory.
The name of the scrap files is composed of the survey name and the scrap name.

TopoDroid does not use cubic splines (as Therion), and all lines are composed
of straight segments. However these are small enough to make the result
smooth.

It is *important* that drawings are done Therion-style. In particular the 
wall lines must circle the cave on the left, and the pit must circle the
drops on the left.

There is no support for "area" symbols.

== "Cave mode" ==

Battery charge is limited and you need to save it as much as possible when
you are caving. If you do not turn off radio emission, your phone wil continuosly
try to pair with your service provider, but it will fail because the phone signal does not enter caves enough. This will drain the battery charge in a few hours.

When you enter the cave switch your phone off. Turn it on when you start
the survey. Phones have a special "airplane mode" that lets you turn all radio
off. Sometimes WiFi can be left on, Turn it off as you do not need it.

Of course you need bluetooth to communicate with the DistoX.
There is an android app that lets you turn bluetooth on in "airplane mode".
In my case when I start TopoDroid in "airplane mode" i get a message asking if I
want to turn on bluetooth: I say "yes" and I get bluetooth in "airplane mode" :-)
