#summary TopoDroid drawing quick intro
#labels Featured,Phase-Support

= TopoDroid Drawing =

Drawing in TopoDroid is done a-la Therion.
So some knowledge of "the Therion approach" is useful to
do good scketches. Here is a brief introduction to how Therion
views the cave maps. 

  - cave maps  are split in sketches (*scrap* in therion jargon). For small caves a plan scrap and an extended elevation scrap are usually enough.

  - there are three types of objects in the sketches: *points* (iconic symbols, like that for od the wiggling arrow for water-flow), *lines* (cave wall, pit, etc.) and *areas* (for example a pond).

  - to draw a point you choose the symbol and tap the place of the screen where you want it to show.

  - to draw a line, you choose the type and drag a path on the screen where you want the line to be

  - to draw an area, you choose the type, and draw the area contour line. The most useful area is the "water".

  - for the extended section, for each shot, you have to choose whether to draw it to the left or to the right (there is a third option: "vertical"; Therion has other option(s), but these are for advanced complex drawings).


== Remarks ==

TopoDroid attach a start station to a sketch: this station is placed at the origin of the canvas and the rest of the centerline is computed from it.
For cross sections you have to specify also the direction by giving the station you are looking at: this is used only to show the splay shots properly.

The scrap files are are saved in the "th2" directory of TopoDroid.
They are named composing the survey name with the scrap name: for example
the file of the scrap "p1" of the survey "my_cave" is "my_cave-p1.th2".

<wiki:comment>
All the files are inserted in the zip archive without the directory name
in the path. Therefore, when you unzip the archive you get the "th" file
and the "th2" files in the same directory. 
</wiki:comment>


If you map small caves, you can do all the work in the cave.
When you get back, you create the zip archive of the survey, download it to the pc, unzip it, add a thconfig file with two lines:
{{{
    source your_cave.th
    export map -proj plan -o your_cave.pdf
}}}
(maybe you must also to uncomment the input of the th2 files in the th: don't
remember exactly)

Then run therion on it, and you have your pdf map.
The quality depends on your ability top draw sketches, of course.
