#summary TopoDroid and PocketTopo.

== TopoDroid and PocketTopo ==

It's hard to tell the difference between TopoDroid and PocketTopo,
especially because my knowledge of PocketTopo come only from the 
available documentation.

Help to this page is appreciated. 

=== Survey data ===

It seems to me that the two programs have a different approach to the
organization of the survey data; each program carries the footprint of
the PC program that inspired them, namely Therion and TopoRobot, respectively.

Therion leaves the user quite free in the choice of the names for the stations;
it has an hierarchical organization in which a station belongs to a "survey",
which in turn can belong to another survey, and so on. There is non concept of cave, neither of cave systems: a cave is just a survey that may contain other 
surveys, if the cave is complex. 

TopoRobot has a two-level hierarchy: at the top level there are caves (directories), which contain surveys (files); the surveys have trips: rows of connected stations. The trip cannot have loops; the cave loops are made of
several trips (or portion of them). The trips of a cave must form a connected
network.

PocketTopo manages the survey work on an entire cave. TopoDroid is focussed on individual surveys, and does not address the problem of putting them together. 

The workflow of the two programs reflects these differences.
In PocketTopo you work in a cave, opening a survey of it at a time and working
on its data. The TopoDroid basic unit is the "survey", these are supposed to be
composed to form the cave suevey with another program (most likely on a PC).  

... to continue ...


=== Sketch drawing ===

... todo ...

=== Calibration ===

Both TopoDroid and PocketTopo can toggle the DistoX in calibration mode,
calculate the coefficients of a calibration, and write them to the DistoX.

TopoDroid treats the calibration data in groups of "same" azimuth and inclination (with several policies for assigning the data to groups). PocketTopo consider the first sixteen data as
forming four groups of four data, and the following one as independent data.

The calibration algorithm is the same in both program, and the computation 
of the calibration coefficients gives similar results.

TopoDroid has a graphical display of the spherical distribution of the calibration data, that can help the user to find direction that are not covered in the data set. 

=== DistoX connection ===

The connection to the DistoX depends not only on the two programs but also on the underlying systems. 

In TopoDroid the data download is always initiated by the user (with a menu), and ends when the available data have been downloaded. I had problems keeping
the program always connected to the DistoX because of the timeout with which the system reported a failure in the connection. This was too long and the TopoDroid hanged annoyingly without downloading anything, before 
realizing there was a problem and reporting it to the user (and trying to reconnect).

There are reports of communication problems between PocketTopo and the DistoX.
These are usually solved with a reset of the connection.
I do not have enough experience to tell more about this. 

There are android devices that could not connect to the DistoX. This is a 
problem of the device, because establishing a connection fails even for the
_Settings_ app. 
There is a list of working and not-working devices. Hopefully this
list will become more and more complete as users provide their feedbacks.

=== The Android environment ===

An app in the android environment can use other apps. 
This integration allows to extend TopoDroid with the functionalities that 
go one step beyond those of a survey program.
The use of the app _Cave3D_ for the 3D display of survey data is an
important addon for the in-cave surevy.

TopoDroid uses also the _Camera_ app to take snapshots
(need an independent source of light), and attach them to the survey.
Finally TopoDroid can register measures (sensor values) associating the 
record to survey shot.

In a way TopoDroid is going off  from a survey app towards an app to collect data in the cave localized both in time (timestamped) and in space
(through the association to the survey shot).