#summary Windows Installation

= Windows Installation =

== Precompiled program archive ==

You need to install the Microsoft VisualC 2008 redistributable package. You can get it from http://go.microsoft.com. Make sure to get that one for VisualC 2008 (v. 9.0). The link is 
http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/details.aspx?familyid=9B2DA534-3E03-4391-8A4D-074. Download and install it.

Next download the Windows precompiled archive, and unzip it. It will create a folder qtshot containing

    * qtopo.rc, run-time configuration
    * qtshot, QTopoShot executable
    * qtcalib, QTopoCalib executable
    * help, help pages
    * i18n, internationalization data
    * icons, programs icons
    * a number of Qt dll.

Double click on qtshot or qtcalib to run each program. 



== Source archive ==

The sources for the Windows installation are the same as for Linux. See the Linux installation for details. Download the source archive and unzip it.

You need to Microsoft Visual C++ 2008 (v. 9.0) and the Qt development environment (Qt-4.x.x). Create a new VisualC project with all the C source and header files in the subdirectories

    * distox,
    * utils,
    * pixmaps,
    * QTshot,
    * QTcalib.

The first three directories are common to both projects. QTshot contains the files for QTopoShot, as well as some common files used also by QTopoCalib.

Open a console window and cd into QTshot-02. Then execute Qt/bin/moc (substitute the proper path for your installation of Qt) on the files

    * PlotCanvas.h
    * PlotCanvasScene.h
    * BackgroundImage.h
    * QTshot.h
    * QTcalib.h

and include the moc-files in the proper project. The first four files are for QTopoShot, the last one for QTopoCalib.
The syntax is "moc -o output_file -D define input_file".
For example "D:\Qt\bin\moc.exe -o moc_QTshot.cpp QTshot.h"

Edit the project settings to include the Qt directories (besides the QTopo directories)
    * Qt\include
    * Qt\include\QtCore
    * Qt\include\QtGui
    * Qt\include\Qt

and the preprocessing directive. The additional QTopoShot dowanload for windows contains the project files that you can use, as well as additional source files required by VC. 
    * main.cpp main.h
    * stdafx.h (can use the one created by VC)
    * the replacement stdint.h

My setup is
<code>
  Qt
    +-- bin
    +-- include
    +-- ...
  qtshot
    +-- include
    +-- QTcalib
    +-- QTshot
    +-- src
          +-- distox
          +-- utils
          +-- pixmaps
          +-- QTshot
          +-- QTcalib
</code>
Compile the projects.